Do you remember being born?

I expect that you do. After all, it happened only a very few minutes ago.

Sensation comes first. Perhaps it was my voice you noticed—a ragged voice, new-carved. These are your first sounds. Sandpaper words, and the even temper of your breath. In time, you will acclimatize to both. For now, it all sounds so very loud.

Perhaps it was the chill of stone against your skin. You are lying face down, you have an animal sprawl. Parts of your face are nestled in against the flagstones. Your fingers might brush against the smoothness of it all. Believe me, there will be softer places in the world than this.

Sensation comes first, and understanding later.

My own birth is scraps and fragments, now. I cannot quite be sure what parts belong. I look down at you, and I might well see myself. I see any number of people now dead.

If I tell you about one of them, perhaps I will tell you about them all.

She incarnated like a warm foal, flanks steaming in the coolness of the world. She was born, and she dropped down onto stone, and her horse legs did not yet know how to function. She lay on her side, and her skin settled around the narrow frame of her body, and in the distance, she heard the trumpet and the rattle of the Mother-of-Us-All.

It takes only minutes before a foal can stand. Theirs is not a long infancy.

She applied her mind, arranged the flexing algebra of her limbs. Took her first hobbling steps. From her observers, she heard the outbreath, the relief.

They hastened her on to another chamber, and set the Mother-of-Us-All to work again.

Your eyes are sliding away from mine. You had been doing so well—such careful attention. It is tiring, I know, for one so young.

I am an old woman now. It is almost nine weeks since I was born. The sensations of my body are dulling down, the world is blunting itself against my touch. All that remains is understanding.

You came into this world the same as I did, in one warm, long flush of existence. But we are not the same. Not quite.

Perhaps your horse legs are not ready yet. Perhaps I will tell you a story while we wait.

In a way, it is a story you already know. It is a story that happened to me—although I do not mean that exactly. It did not happen to this voice. It happened to us. It even happened to you, newborn that you are. We are woven through it, you and I.

Let us see what we can unpick.

I have told you something of my birth already. Crumpled and panting, on a floor of stone. The first thing I remember is my own hand: an origami shape, built from seam and fold and shadow. It seemed stiff, inarticulate.

I do not remember the Mother-of-Us-All. She had been disguised, hidden away from me with thick plastic curtains. It was only later that I saw her, in all her valves and glory.

The plastic was weighted down with condensation. It came off it like sweat. The air was fever-thick and eddying; behind the barriers, the Mother-of-Us-All was letting out thick bouts of steam.

To me, that seemed the natural order of the world.

Today, I have pulled the curtains all aside. It is important that you understand the place of your creation. Nothing antiseptic, here, nothing sterile. Lemon-yellow walls, a dust-sheeted pianoforte. A long-forgotten reception room, least-loved, most easily adapted. Chairs stacked to a high ceiling, and windows blacked out with cardboard. They installed the Mother-of-Us-All and ran her cables deep under the ground and abandoned her in one isolated wing of a palace that spread like a sickness upon the frosted earth.

More like a stable than a nursery. More like a factory.

I forced myself to stand because by then I had found the quiet eyes. They assessed my movement, ticked something on a paper sheet. I knew nothing, and yet I knew it was important that I could stand for them.

My hand was different now, it had quite come alive. Flecked all through with living colors. I moved the fingers, made soft patterns in the air. Perfect fingernails that would never grow.

“Stop that,” said one of the technicians, and swatted at my hand.

I lowered my arm, turned my perfect face toward him. Child eyes in an adult frame.

I drank in the first words I had ever heard. I tried to make words back.

A thin gurgle from compressed lips.

The technician looked as if he might be sick. He jabbed at my side with his clipboard, and I tottered on, funneled down a narrow path of plastic sheeting.

So then, this was the world. One partitioned segment of a dusty room, and a white maze within it.

At the end of the maze was a doorway, white-lipped portal to a corridor beyond. The corridor was unlighted, padded out with rugs and bulging with bric-a-brac. The world was a little larger than I had assumed.

In the doorway stood Teacher. This time, the eyes were kind, the words were kind.

“Hello there, Ochre,” he said, and all of him smiled to see me. “Look at you! Aren’t you doing well?”

I loved him immediately, like a reflex. I didn’t know then that the feeling would sicken and curdle.

Teacher is the first person that I need you to kill.

You will recognize Teacher. I am sure of that.

It is early in the morning, so you will find him in his quarters. These are small rooms, low with wooden beams. Jammed in tight behind the principal studio. He has filled them out with salvage, flotsam from the forgotten wings of the palace. A chaise longue, the moss green velvet of it all crusted over. Dark wood spotted with water damage. Things he has dragged from rooms where the ceilings have caved in, where the sky drips down and promises decay.

There will be smoke in the air, something noxious and herbal to help Teacher to forget. He will be dressed in his customary waistcoat. He worries at the embroidery of it, the design is almost entirely undone. No one buys grand clothes for Teacher anymore.

A sharp face, and small. Neat beard, tapering to an apex point. His hands might well be shaking. He was an artist, once. Now he is only this. Teacher is old, he is a reliquary of a man. A container for antique bones.

I doubt he will have noticed his missing keys. Certainly, he has not come here in search of them.

Teacher’s flesh is not like our flesh. He is not the same material all the way through. That is what makes him a person, and us a commodity. There are no bones in us.

If you crush Teacher hard enough, you might see his bones. If you do, it means that you can stop.

He named me Ochre, after the color of my skin. It is an earth color, a powder color. Dry and toasted. You will have to imagine it, for now. Color is one of the harder things to explain.

There were other colors in me, of course. I was flecked with green and blue, tiny paint-splash imperfections that built thin constellations on my skin. The effect of it was decorative. Teacher’s skin was patchy with veins and heat, it bristled with little hairs. My skin had the sheen and the finish of wallpaper.

One corridor led to another, led to staircases, led to tight and twisting passageways. Teacher knew it all, he led me in the dance, and I followed him, as we crossed great landings and crept through paneled wooden hallways. This was a quiet world, a hunched and gloomy one. Occasionally, we would pass another person, pinned and uniformed, attending to laundry or adjusting a picture frame from a ladder’s peak. They were people like Teacher was a person, and I saw how different this category of being was from myself. Real people had a bulk to them, a weight. I was a paper kite; I might just blow away. I was taller than Teacher by a head, but it meant nothing. The material of my body was insubstantial, phantom.

We came across a vast oil painting: a smirking nobleman, curls in his hair, and rings on his fingers. Deep and glossy black puddled around him. The yellow warmth of my own body reflected back at me from the darkness, framed me alongside.

Teacher was so much stronger than us both, in his stained gown, his frayed waistcoat.

“These are the servant stairs, Ochre,” he told me. I tried to echo the words back, and he laughed. “That’s alright, sweetheart. It takes some getting used to.”

We walked in silence after that. I wondered when my words would come as easily as Teacher’s did.

I did not wonder where he was taking me. I loved Teacher, and I trusted him. Teacher was my oldest friend in the entire world.

Eventually, we came to a landing that was altogether undecorated. The adjoining corridors were of a plainer style. There were no paintings of any kind.

Teacher pointed to a battered set of wooden doors. They had once been painted green, a green that over time had flaked away to decorate the floor below.

“It’s just through here, Ochre,” he said, and something in me knew that he was right, knew even before he said it that this was indeed our destination. That beyond the doors were two low steps, unexpected, and past them a great hall, and within it—

“This is the studio,” said Teacher, holding one door open for me. “Mind your step there as you go.”

The studio was vast; it enfolded light. It was more brilliant than anything I had ever seen. I realized, with some measure of embarrassment, how small and shabby the place of my birth must have seemed.

I tugged at Teacher’s arm and pointed. “It’s glass,” he said. “Sometimes we see through it, and we call that a window. And sometimes we don’t, and that’s a mirror, and we only see ourselves.” He straightened his gown where I had disheveled it. “I don’t know why,” he admitted.

The window glass was to our right as we entered the chamber. It was the entirety of the wall, ten feet tall and webbed with thin veins of bronze. Light cascaded through it and separated into symmetrical pinpricks of illumination. Beyond the windows lay a terrace of gray stone, studded with pale columns, and beyond that—

“Gardens,” said Teacher. “Outside.”

It might have gone on forever.

The mirror glass faced us, it reflected the full length of the room. When I understood this, I realized that the studio was not quite as vast as I had first believed. Only one half of it existed, the distant part was entirely the mirror’s invention.

We walked across the extant length of the studio, to where the mirror bordered on the imaginary. My image in the shine of oil had been a murky thing. Now I saw myself exact.

Teacher had so many layers to him, so many textures and fabrics. I had none. The curls of my hair, the muscles of my neck, the soles of my feet—all were the same supple, golden flesh.

“That’s you, Ochre,” said Teacher gently. I nodded. It was the only possible response. The mirror had shown me that as well, it had shown me why it was that Teacher could bend his mouth into words, and I could not.

Teacher rang a bell, then, and I recoiled at the sharpness of the sound. A far door opened in response. Figures poured through into the dapple of window light. With a thrill, I realized that these were people in the same way I was a person: thin and angled, products of design. The colors of them varied, each a base tone freckled with brighter, more vivid notes.

Each face was beautiful and proud, as mine was. Each too had the same awful, constricted mouth.

Their lips were fixed in perfect puckers. The sides of them were sealed into place, pressed together in a rigid, kissing formation. The only gap was at the very center: a narrow aperture for sound and breath.

Our voices, sealed in our throats. Caught tight behind the perfect, sharpened curve of a Cupid’s bow.

Teacher had my arm, he pulled me back with him to the distant edge of the studio. He rang the bell again, and the figures began to dance.

At the time, I had no point of comparison. I could not tell you how they danced, only that their bodies looped and joined, that the colors of them bled across the room, that they made one shape and one flesh and then broke apart in limbed fractals.

Now, I have seen a little of the world. I have seen flocks of birds in tidal murmuration, a fluid creep across the vaulted dimensions of the sky. But then, you have not. I keep forgetting all the things you do not know.

The pattern was intoxicating. I was enraptured. And yet—it was apparent to me that there was a flaw. A ragged wing, a feather out of place. A hole in the center of the dance.

I watched for a while. The steps were logical enough. The muscles of my body longed to stretch themselves into those same shapes.

Silently, I entered into the dance, allowed myself to dissipate into the ebb and flow of it. My body intertwined, subsumed. We danced, and as we did so, we were one creature in many parts.

In time, our dance was done. Teacher rang his bell.

The dancers milled around the great hall, clustering in groups or staring vacantly through the high windows. They cooed to each other through pursed lips. Not a language, nothing so complex. Animal sounds, a demonstration of emotion. The empty twittering of paper birds.

I noticed that a great many of them were holding hands.

I made my way to Teacher, who was sitting on a bench and watching his pupils pool and drift.

There was something different in his eyes than there had been before. A smell, too, spiced and aromatic.

“You are a dancer, Ochre,” he said, and his throat caught as he said it. “You live here in Winter’s End with us. That is what you are for.”

I nodded at that, and waited.

“It was impressive,” he said. “But not perfect. We have a show tonight—oh, we have a show every night. This time, you will watch. Tomorrow, you can do it for yourself.”

The other dancers were filing back through the doorway. I turned my shoulders as if to join them.

“They always know how, these days,” Teacher said. His eyes shifted, as if he were now talking to someone else altogether. “They used to need me. Soon there will be no place for a Teacher anymore.”

I put my hand on his shoulder, as if to reassure him that I needed him very much indeed.

The Palace of Winter’s End has many rooms in which to dance.

It was a fortress, once. So goes the story. There is a castle at the palace-heart, a sunken walnut at the center of a layered cake. A brittle core, hemmed all around with pleasure-gardens, with painted plaster and the pastel coloring of the state.

Its masters had built it as a promise to the people of this land. A guarantee that they were not alone.

The native fields were not unused to frost. It came, it went. This was the regularized story of the seasons. Ice would form on the surface of great lakes. There would be skating, there would be midwinter celebration. After all of it, the thaw.

The fields would overrun with shoots. The creatures would give new birth.

When they came to this land as travelers, with no thought of conquest in their minds, there had been no thaw. Ice remained unbroken on the surface of the great lakes. Crops had failed. Animals had sickened. Children were born frail and later died.

The days grew and the nights shrank, and the pyramid of the year was overturned, and in all of it the same.

These kindly travelers were much disturbed. They came from a sister-world, they said, a place of talent and renown. It grieved them to see this land and its people so hurt. It grieved them very deep indeed.

The first thing that they did was build a barrier of stone. A fortress that stood against the windchill and the cold. They said, within is heat, and light. Shelter with us for a while. We promise you that we won’t go. We promise we have come to make this winter end.

They had resources on that sister-world. They had clever minds and electrical devices. They had a company that bore their family’s name and so could be turned to any purpose.

The castle grew, and the travelers were rewarded with high office, by acclamation of the state.

Over time, the travelers explained that their task was more complex. They urged patience, as flat-nosed machines stamped their way across the nearby fields and put down marker stones. There was a time for all things, as the busts of their ancestors were wheeled in by the caseload, while the writhing tangle of their initials was imprinted onto patterned wooden floors.

Now the palace stands here as a promise, and the people of the land—those that survive—are still welcome inside, if only they are painting a frescoed ceiling, or dusting the multiplicity of glass, mirrored and unmirrored, that makes up a single cascading chandelier.

The green and fertile lawns of the palace are anchored all around with glow-orbs; repositories of heat and light. Within the grounds, the grass grows very well indeed.

The descendants of those first travelers have very little concern for Winter’s End. Far more important that they have room enough to dance.

Of course, it was still many weeks before I learned these things. Stories such as these are hard to come by within the palace walls. Even harder, to find one able to speak them.

On that first night of my short life, the venue chosen was the Ballroom of the Incarnadine Thread. I remember very clearly the heat of it—the warmth generated by a mass of people, each of them with hairs and clothes and greedy, grasping metabolisms. We filtered in amongst them, smooth knives of calm in the soporific gloom. They regarded us with curiosity, with hunger, with boredom. A novelty for some, a commonplace for others.

Teacher and I lurked in one plush corner of the great hall and watched. The guests tripped and giggled amongst themselves. My fellows took them by the hands and brought them into our design.

It was not so much a matter of leading. It was a matter of following, of matching each attendee at their pace. Observing their own clumsy moves and counterbalancing them so that they appeared as art, so that they appeared the more skillful of the two. The music whirled and dived around them, and that was part of the design, too. The guests were being woven into something beyond their own sight, something mesmerizing and concordant and yet improvised in each individual moment.

I let myself drift away from the dancers. The long walls of the ballroom were hung with faded tapestries. There were no windows here—only a ceiling ribbed with metal beams and cloaked in a skin of transparent glass. Above us, snow twisted in the evening wind and melted on contact. Water spilled away into iron gutters.

“The family brought those with them,” Teacher told me, gesturing to the tapestries. The artistry was patchwork, somehow. A bustle of figures, uniforms, dresses: each layered one above the other. Soft fabric in cacophony.

“Heirlooms,” Teacher said. “It’s a family tradition. Every generation, they stitch the next lot in.”

It seemed to me a flawed tradition. Already, the tapestries were thick and overpopulated.

I wished I could ask Teacher how it would work, whether one day, when the space was all used up, the family might sigh and cut down their scarlet tapestries and spread them on the patterned floor. Whether they might unpick their progenitors and weave their children in their place.

I was newborn, but even then, it seemed quite clear. The world has only so much thread.

The dancers traded partners; guided them through a long archway of speckled limbs.

Above us, gigantic figures bulged from the walls in a twist of threads. Their faces were as hollow and as vacant as my own. I studied one: a composite creature, woven together from a mass of silver strands. Some had come loose, frayed away from the whole. Alone, they were so pale as to almost disappear. Together, they had a firmness to them, a rigidity. Together, they formed a man.

“Funny you should be looking at that one,” said Teacher. “That’s him. Thomas Pendragon. Lord and master of Winter’s End.”

We were distracted by a peal of laughter as the first dance came to an end.

Thomas Pendragon is the second person that I require you to kill.

Most likely, Thomas Pendragon will be asleep.

He is a gray man. Gray clothes, gray hair, gray face. He is composed of silver threads.

He was present that night—Teacher pointed him out to me, afterward. Not a willing participant, him. Not red-cheeked and flushed from the dance. There is not enough blood in him for that.

No, Thomas is not like his sister that way. He prefers instead to watch. He plays the benefactor, he gives a measured smile and raises his glass in recognition of a face he knows.

He owns us, technically speaking. We are his possessions. He may have had us professionally insured.

He sits in a palace that is devoted to his pleasure, and despite it all, he is still so gray, so worn.

He does not seem to revel in his dominion. His mastery over us, our deaths and lives, inspires no great emotion. Perhaps he will say nothing when you appear and destroy him. Perhaps he will not even wake.

Teacher was quiet on the walk back to the studio. By necessity, we were quiet, also. My fellows seemed enervated by their experience. Their heads were bowed, and in the cool dark of the servant stairs, I could less easily distinguish the patterns on their skin.

The guests had tired of dancing. Their starched collars drooped with sweat, their crinolines were in a state of compromise. Their soft skin threatened to overheat.

Thomas Pendragon, cool and sallow and undisturbed. The pressed lines of his trousers, still scalpel-sharp. The murmur of instructions, a wave of one pale hand.

Tables were arranged. Heavy cloth and silverware. Shining skin on transparent consommé. The guests all took their seats.

Through it all, the dancers never stopped. Rich courses came, hulking platters of meat and leaf and shelled creatures from undersea. There was laughter, and conversation, and in one corner of the room the dance continued: a mosaic that flexed and breathed and warped even when the musicians all had packed away.

As the guests retrieved their coats, and kissed each other’s cheeks, and gave wobbling curtseys to Thomas Pendragon’s bloodless form—still, they danced.

They shuffled their way back into the studio, and Teacher looked them over and saw his flowers wilt.

“I know, my darlings,” he said. “I know.”

Earlier that day, I had seen into the chamber that lay beyond the studio. An undecorated place, bare walls lit by low sconces. Folded into the distant height of the ceiling, a gridded, metal thing: a tangled cage of copper piping and aching, laborious pistons.

Now Teacher opened a panel disguised behind a wooden seam. His hands flickered across dials, adjusted two stubby, green-handled levers.

The metal canopy began to descend and unfurl long tubing from the carriage of itself. I flattened myself against a wall, and Teacher laughed. I wondered if we had somehow done wrong, if he meant to kill us all.

My fellows did not share in my alarm. They crowded beneath the mechanism in flocks, they cooed happy, simple sounds and upturned their heads to better watch the pipes outstretch. Their dull eyes came alive at last with eagerness.

I watched as they each fitted themselves to prescribed positions on the floor. Watched as copper fingers pushed their way down, brushed against the fixed material of their lips, and then pierced further still. Machine-teats, sliding into place in hollow throats.

One tube glimmered out of place, not yet lodged inside the aperture of a frozen mouth.

Teacher nudged me toward it. I looked back at him with desperate eyes. He nodded his assurance.

I pushed myself onto the nozzle like a hooked fish. Behind the wooden panel, Teacher made one final adjustment. There was a noise above us, like an uncorking.