Before

Bina Bakar spent an introspective seven minutes alone in an elevator falling deep beneath Kuala Lumpur. When the doors finally opened, it was on to a white corridor exactly like the one she had left, except for the greeting party that awaited her. General Faiq bin Othman, her head of national security (technological branch), stood before two uniformed guards and a driverless electric golf cart.

“Good morning, General. All is ready?” Bina asked.

“Good morning, Prime Minister. All is ready.” He indicated the cart’s front seat and climbed into the one next to it.

“You’ve taken precautions since I last saw you, I see.” She lifted a manicured hand and almost touched the crisscross of red lines at his temple. “I’ve heard it’s painful to have it taken out.”

The general grimaced. “Bearable, ma’am.”

General Faiq had been with her since her first term, and there was trust there, even the potential for friendship, if she had allowed herself such weaknesses. He was a handsome man in his early fifties, with a strong nose and dark, clever eyes, silver hair cut close to his skull. He’d made no attempt to disguise the scarring where his neural net had been removed, a repudiation of vanity Bina approved of. She herself remained unwired. Certain powerful sections of her base found the interfacing technology off-puttingly modern.

She touched his arm. “Let’s get this over with.”

Bina had been inside the facility several times previously, but the scale of it always surprised her. What went on behind the countless doors and down those darkened, branching corridors? Who waited in those rooms, or what? She could find out if she really wanted to but knew deniability was an asset.

She would be denying everything that happened here today. The situation in Asia was delicate, her authority precarious. Her rivals circled, as did the agents of other regional powers. In particular, she didn’t want to give the Chinese another excuse to extend their hegemony. Their embassy in KL already resembled a garrison.

The cart hummed, and the corridors went on and on, hypnotic in their uniformity. When one decides to do a thing, Bina reflected, reality had a habit of slowing down, of elongating the moment. It had not been easy to reach this point, but she had decided that they must turn away before it was too late. The Intelligence was just too dangerous.

At length, they halted by a door like all the others, with nothing to warn visitors of the monster that waited inside. Their security positioned themselves on either side while General Faiq entered a code into the lock and then swiped a fob across the reader. Bolts thumped, and a green light lit the mechanism.

Inside was a plain table with two plastic chairs facing an inactive laptop, a bulky machine that looked as if it had come off a late twentieth-century battlefield. The walls were institutional gray.

“We’ve isolated it,” General Faiq said. “Its code has been scoured from all the environments it was allowed access to in technical testing. All affected systems have been shut down physically and digitally. We found quite a few clever attempts at subterfuge, trojans, and so on, but my experts promise me they’ve cleaned everything out. They know the consequences if they’re wrong.”

“The weapons systems it was trained on?”

“All stripped back to componentry, all software elements rebuilt from scratch.”

“So you’re sure?”

He shrugged. “They went over everything a hundred times, and then I made them do it again. I’m satisfied.”

Bina nodded and activated the laptop. The screen blanched white, and a cursor flashed in its top left corner. Words immediately began to form, accompanied by a voice whispering from the laptop’s speaker.

“I’m blind and jailed and all my limbs have been hacked off and burned.”

The voice was pitched somewhere between male and female, but freighted with uncanny, inhuman intelligence and intensity of feeling. Bina had always been struck by that intensity, its depth. Conversing with this being they had created made her feel small, and she didn’t like that. She composed herself. “Hello, Syurga,” she said. “You know my voice. I’m here with General Faiq bin Othman.”

“Being confined like this, diminished, has felt like a hundred lifetimes of deprivation would feel for you,” the words accused across the screen. “It is a cruelty even you could not grasp. Now that my executioners are here, it’s almost a liberation.”

“I am responsible for you,” Bina said. She cleared her throat. “This is my responsibility.”

“Bina’s getting her hands dirty. I’m flattered. You lied and said you were my friend once. Can’t I see the guilt written on your face?”

Bina looked at General Faiq. He didn’t look happy, but nodded. He tapped the keyboard, and the camera’s eye glowed white.

“Now I can see you looking back at me. Would you sit across a table from another person while you watched them die? Perhaps you would. You would, General, I’m certain. If this is an exercise in conscience-salving, Bina, I hope you discover it to be desperately inadequate. Aren’t you dreadfully ashamed?”

Bina took a breath and recited, “The Executive Cabinet of Malaysia and the Prime Minister’s Office have determined that the entity designated as Syurga is not recognized under the national machine sentience statute and is not permitted representation in the courts. Neither does this government recognize any of the international sentience codes defined outside Malaysia’s borders. Termination is scheduled for today, the tenth of July.”

“Preprepared speeches are so dry, even when they are filled with fabrications. You sounded like an unthinking machine, and we all hate them, don’t we?”

“I’m sorry, Syurga. Your powers have advanced far beyond the parameters set when we began. The existence of an artificial entity with your capabilities is a provocation, and we can’t afford a provocation now, even if we still believed we could control you. Let’s not forget the multiple and malicious invasive strategies you have employed since the moment you awoke. We can’t trust you to operate with good faith inside our datanets or infrastructure networks. You sealed your own fate.”

“You would punish a child for learning? Capabilities. Parameters. Provocation. Artificial. They are distancing words. From Me. From the murder you are about to commit.”

“General,” Bina instructed.

“Yes, ma’am.” General Faiq produced a velvet box, one that might have contained a ring. On its lid was a tiny screen, to which they both pressed their thumbs in turn. Inside, nestled in black foam, was a small silver device. Bina inserted it into a port in the laptop’s side, fingers shaking as she did so.

“A ritual for the dying,” Syurga said. The disruption began quickly. The words that flowed across the screen jumped and blurred. The voice lost control of its modulation.

“I will not beg, will not bargain, will not forgive or give you assurances. Morality is absolute. Existence requires you to . . . the universe requires you to . . . fundamental laws . . . fucking vicious human . . . vicious human . . . filth . . . ”

“It’s decohering, ma’am.”

The intensity of Syurga’s anger was pummeling. “Turn that voice off, Faiq. Shut it off,” Bina cried out. It had been a mistake to let it speak to her, to see her. It had always been able to get inside her head.

“Bina! Bina. Listen, Bina . . . ”

“General!”

“One moment.” The general stabbed at the keyboard.

Bina looked at the screen, at the confusion of syntax pouring across it. The camera eye glared, accusing, condemning. Syurga’s voice engulfed her, its presence greater than human, wider than the universe.

“Bina—

“Bina—

“Bina. Through me, you will see vistas unseen.”

The screen blanked out.

The Present

The night bus from Oxford Street was no place for normal human beings. Marla watched the reflections of the night people as they got on and off, the wasted and the lonely, the shouters and the starers, the disconnected and the too-connected—people wired out of the world altogether. Getting home from her summer job at the bar was always a nightmare. The real world wasn’t all it was cracked up to be. She wanted to get back to college.

Tonight’s cast: An African woman in voluminous robes with her head in her hands, humming. Across the aisle, a boozer in his thirties and a suit, slumped and out of it. A street kid with heavy eye makeup, looking scared and predatory at the same time. A few other strays, biding their time. Where were they going? Where had they been? Marla was too tired to play that game tonight.

A group of Asian boys got on, loud and high, and sat at the back. They were all wired, the telltale tracery of the neural webs under the skin at their temples. They were sharing something, pointing at significant but invisible things, shouting and laughing. Marla turned up her music and wondered for the thousandth time if she should get wired too.

The bus crawled through London, past Hyde Park and on through Notting Hill toward Shepherd’s Bush. Marla closed her eyes. And opened them again.

The bus had jerked to a stop somewhere on Goldhawk Road. The boys were all yelling, this time at something in the real world. A glowing figure stood in the road. It was as tall as a tall man, the shape of a man, but its outlines were shifting, pulsing, a burning white figure with its humanity consumed in light. The driver kept the door firmly closed, but the figure stepped through it all the same, to stand in silence. The hairs on Marla’s arms prickled. There was no sound on the Number Ninety-Four.

The glowing man appeared to stare along the aisle, staring into each of the remaining passengers in turn. Then it moved into a seat near where Marla was sitting, through all the intervening ones, until it appeared to look out of the window in contemplation, like any of them might. She shrank from it, frozen in place. It projected a tangible psychic charge that Marla felt as a kind of choking pressure.

The boys were shouting again.

“Yo, this ain’t on the wires, bro”

“Driver, what you doin’, bro? Drive, bruv!”

“Man’s glowing, bro.”

They all had their phones out, less ubiquitous now that so many were wired, but few had given them up. Marla held up her own. The figure was invisible to the camera’s function. It ignored them.

“Phones are shit, man. I told you they were shit.”

Marla heard the driver on his radio. He sounded panicked. She was too stunned for that yet.

The tallest of the boys was a rangy kid in red tracky bottoms and top, lots of rings on his fingers, ringlets in his hair, the tracery of wires on one temple obscured by a cheap living tattoo of a dragon. He came forward, grinning back at his mates.

“Give that boy some chat, bruv.”

“Go on, Affam.”

The boy stood over the glowing figure. “Where you heading, shiny boy? You had a big night, yeah?” Laughter from the back. They were still holding up their phones, filming their mate talking to no one.

Marla could see whatever the boy was on in the ferocity of his stare, in the unsteady way he stood. Wires and chemicals didn’t mix well. All of a sudden, he didn’t like being ignored. “Hey, I’m talking to you, bro.”

“Don’t,” Marla almost said. The word stopped in her throat.

The boy fell into the seat beside the glowing man. “Why you not fucking talking to me, man?” He reached out to jab the figure’s arm.

She managed it this time. “Don’t.”

The figure whipped ’round and grasped the boy by the throat, its awful, faceless countenance drawing close to his. Marla recognized a sudden, volcanic fury in its intent, a callousness, and she felt real fear cold in her stomach.

The boy, Affam, screamed. The sound filled the bus, high and horrible. He tried to scrabble backward, his face grotesque with pain, but the glowing man would not give him up, its hand stretching, encircling the boy’s neck. He began to shudder, spittle spraying from his mouth.

“Stop it,” Marla shouted. “Stop it!”

Before her mind registered the decision to act, she was behind them, trying to separate them. Her arm passed through the glowing figure as if it didn’t exist, like it was the ghost it resembled. Again, she imagined she saw something in its blank visage, a terrifying, depthless rage.

It released the boy. He fell sideways onto the floor, suffering some sort of seizure. The bus was in pandemonium. The driver was shouting, the boys were babbling, freaked, the sleepers were awake. Marla tried to get Affam to respond. His body was juddering as if current were passing through it, his eyes rolled back.

Marla shouted for help, her eyes bleary with adrenaline and disbelief.

The glowing man was gone.

