An urgency gripped Calista, her listlessness transforming into mania. She snatched the flyer and rushed through the winding halls of the chateâu from the base of the stairs, where the flyer had been sitting on a side table, into the west wing, right to her father’s study. She rapped her knuckles against the thick oak door.

“Come in.”

Calista had to use her full weight to open the door. It groaned on its hinges as if protective of its master’s solitude and reluctant to permit entry. Her father glanced up. Round glasses perched on the end of his nose. There he was, day after day, scribbling away in his ledgers. Calista didn’t understand him, how he looked so prim and proper, his brown-gray hair slicked back, his shirt and vest perfectly crisp and clean. It hadn’t even been one month since their world had come crashing down, and here he was, unchanged.

“Well?” he asked.

Calista lost all powers of speech. She rolled the flyer in both hands and glanced at the hoard of books lining the walls. He sighed.

“If there’s not a specific reason for your impromptu visit, I’d rather postpone idle chatter until dinner.”

Calista wanted to rant and rave like a child, despite being nearly twenty, but in her father’s presence, all she could do was brood. He had that kind of sway over her. He always had.

“The Cyber Circus is coming tomorrow,” she said.

“And?”

“I’d like to go. I always go.”

“Then go,” he said before focusing back on his ledgers.

“Alone?”

“You’re not a child.”

Calista bit her lip and waited, the ticking of the antique wall clock keeping the time. She moved to the desk and dropped a hand on the ledger. Her father glanced up.

“Maman always went with me,” she said.

Terror seized her. It was like a jabbing, an achiness, and nausea all at once.

“I’m not your Maman. I have no interest in attending such things.”

Calista let her hand fall away and slide off the desk. She wanted to sob, but she wasn’t going to give her father the satisfaction of seeing her so affected by his callousness. She walked stiffly out of the room and made her way up to the attic.

The sun shone in through the skylight. Despite the warmth, Calista lifted her mother’s shawl from the floor and wrapped herself in it. This had become her space, her routine. She lay down, faced the ceiling, and stared at it until little shapes appeared. She stayed this way until the light faded and one of the servants came to fetch her.

“Dinner,” the woman said.

Her eyes were blank. Most of them had probably become impatient with Calista for not moving past her grief. But the wound kept festering and spreading, no matter what ointment she applied. She didn’t know what to do. She needed a cure or, at the very least, a distraction. Maybe the Cyber Circus could act as one.

A servant passed by as Calista tightened her boots. She shrank back into the shadows of the mudroom. In times like these, when her heart ached and the oozing sore of her grief wept, she wished her father wasn’t so hostile toward all that was auta. If they had machines instead of people haunting the silent passages of their home, Calista could have wallowed openly in her anguish. Instead, she was forced to keep her face immobile. The servant’s footsteps faded, and silence settled on the chateâu again. Calista threw on a light jacket and slipped out.

The gray stones crunched as she followed the path from the chateâu grounds to the forest trail, twenty minutes of sweet solitude. Every footfall brought back memories of her mother. The Cyber Circus had been their favorite tradition. It was special because it was why her mother first came to this region. Back then, she’d never had a home. A perpetual wanderer like her mother before her, and her mother’s mother, stretching back generations. All that changed when she came to this town. Something about it had felt right to her.

“It chose me, not the other way around,” she’d said.

“And you met Papa then?”

“And I met Papa then.”

“And he swept you off your feet and built you a chateâu and married you and then you had me?”

“That’s right, mon petit chou. And you’re the best thing that ever happened to me.”

But if that were true, why had her mother left her all alone? Calista kicked twigs and rocks. It wasn’t fair. None of it.

As she neared her destination, the wind carried the sound of flutes and accordions and the buzz of collective voices. Calista’s brooding faded. Without warning, the little forest path was lost in an open field. A cluster of striped tents sat in the distance, flags on their pointed tops flapping in the wind. Calista strode forward, swinging her arms and taking long strides. The energy emanating from that place was infectious, reaching a pinnacle as she entered the Cyber Circus.

Bright lights, vivid colors, the twang of sugar and fats floating in the air, intermingling. And the people, so many of them. Walls of bodies, tall and lean, thick and short, aged and spry, laughing and crying. It was a microcosm, physically, emotionally. Calista jumped into the throng. She let the crowd carry her where it would. She played games and was free and generous with her credits. She threw darts at balloons, shot clown cutouts with water rifles, tried and failed to detect the bot among the human voices. She won prizes and gifted them to children near at hand. A stuffed bear. A finger trap. A holo-yo-yo. Calista bought a hot-pink boa and oversized sunglasses with embedded LEDs. She set the lights to run in trains, shifting through the colors of the spectrum—the warm reds and oranges to the neutral yellows, onward into the cool tones of greens, then blues. Last came purple, a deep hue bordering on the imperceptible, straying into the ultraviolet, that sacred range beyond human sight. It was her mother’s favorite color, indigo.

The lightness and airiness that filled Calista retreated at that thought, that reminder of what she’d been trying to flee from. She remembered her sad new reality. There was no Maman standing by her side this time. There never would be, ever again. A skull kissed rocks, and Calista’s life was a ruined wreck. She couldn’t breathe, or rather, the air she sucked in didn’t seem to ease the screaming of her lungs. She pushed through the crowd, desperate to get out and away, but body after body blocked her escape. The world went white, and she crumpled. But instead of hitting dirt and being trampled, something cool and smooth caught her and whisked her away.

Calista came to in the quiet and calm of a vendor’s tent. The roar outside was a distant murmur. The lighting was steady and dim.

“Have a sip,” a voice said, followed by a hand offering a glass of water.

Calista stared at her lap. She didn’t understand what had happened or where she was, but she took the proffered vessel and held it in both hands. Then she remembered her episode, and her eyes shot up. A man stood in front of her, arms crossed, heels touching, a finger to his chin, or rather its chin. Because it wasn’t actually a human. Just an auta made to mimic one.

Calista looked at the water and hesitated.

“It is not doped with anything,” the auta said. “I would take a drink myself to prove it, but I do not have the proper parts for processing.”

Calista sniffed the water, then took a sip. She let a few seconds pass before gulping down the whole of it. The general hum faded, and the haze in her vision fell away.

“What happened?” she asked.

“You lost consciousness,” the auta said. “Do you have a condition?”

Calista shook her head.

“You might consider getting checked by a professional then.”

“It was too much,” Calista said. “Everything was just too much all of a sudden.”

The auta tilted its head to the side, shutters briefly flickered over its glass eyes. Calista liked the clicking sound it made, and she inspected her host more closely. It was tall and lean with peach-colored cladding meant to mimic flesh, except smooth with a slight shine to it. Its glass eyes reflected light, and if not for that, they’d be almost indistinguishable from the real thing. They were a brilliant blue, almost like images she’d seen of glacial ice, long gone the world over. On the top of the auta’s head, hair was painted, brown and wavy. It was complemented by a petite handlebar mustache. A Frenchman’s style from a couple of centuries past. The clothing completed the picture of an auta meant to harken back to the heyday of the circus. Striped pants with red suspenders, a cream button-down, and a red bow tie.

“It sounds like you experienced a panic attack,” the auta said. “Do you suffer from anxiety?”

Calista put her glass down on a table near her chair and stood. She was lightheaded and swayed before catching herself on the armrest.

“You should give yourself time to equilibrate.”

“I should go,” she said.

“You should not. Sit.”

The auta guided her back into the chair.

“I will fetch you something to eat.”

Calista leaned back and closed her eyes. The room was spinning again, and she waited for the vertigo to stop. Once it had, she cracked her eyes open and inspected her surroundings. The auta was gone. Its tent was filled with all manner of jars bearing labels written with a meticulous hand. She rose slowly and made her way over to a shelf arranged with dozens of medicinal concoctions and ointments. She read the labels of some, opened and smelled the contents of others. By the time the auta reentered its tent, Calista was back in her chair.

It presented a grin and handed her a sticky bun. She took it and picked at the pastry with her fingers. While she ate, the auta fiddled with a small circuit board, whiffs of solder floating in the air. Calista licked the sweet syrup from her fingers, then rose. The auta turned around on hearing the movement.

“Are you feeling better?” it asked.

“Much, thank you. I should be going, though. I’ve already taken up too much of your time.”

“Not at all. I have no customers, at the moment.”

Calista gazed at the wares again and wondered just how many patrons the auta had on any given day. Who would be foolish enough to trust their health to it when they could just as easily go to a chemist for their medications or a doctor for more complex ailments?

“Do you get many customers?” Calista asked.

The auta clicked the shutters across its non-eyes again.

“It depends,” it said.

“On?”

“On where I am. On how the market is behaving. On word of mouth.”

Calista moved to one of the shelves with the jars and ran her fingers along the fronts of each. The auta looked on, motionless.

“I am discreet,” it said.

Calista turned and locked her eyes on it.

“Pardon?”

“That is how my business works. I sell goods that you cannot find anywhere else. Would you like to see?”

Calista nodded. The auta beckoned her with a wave of its plastic hand. She walked to its side and, in that proximity, felt a sliver of auta-phobia. This machine was powerful. If it wanted to, it could snap her in half.

The auta opened a drawer, retrieved an object, and held its other hand out for hers. She offered it. The auta dropped something in, and Calista looked down. A chip no larger than her pinky nail rested on her palm.

“Wireworks,” the auta said.

“For?”

“Whatever ails your mind.”

Calista pulled her palm closer to her face and used a fingernail to nudge the chip. It flipped, and a hundred fine prongs showed themselves. She’d seen this kind of device before. One of her father’s business associates used wireworks to give him an edge in his work, which involved predicting and interpreting client behavior.

“Do you do the surgery for the interface?” she asked.

“This is my own invention,” the auta said. “I improved on the model so that it no longer requires an interface.”

Calista glanced up.

“How’s that possible?”

The auta pointed at the chip.

“Those pins are special. They may look static, but they use a new kind of nanotechnology that builds a bridge between organics and synthetics on contact.”

Calista flinched and nearly dropped the chip.

“But only when exposed to a certain frequency,” it added.

“Why are you selling something like this here?” she asked. “Why not look for investors and do it properly?”

The auta presented a smile.

“Would you happen to know of any investors who would finance an auta?”

She paused to think, then shook her head. In fact, the mere presence of this auta out in the countryside was highly unusual. There were strict laws regulating what auta could do and where they could go. UNoU, the company that manufactured them, guarded their intellectual and material property jealously. Calista couldn’t imagine how this one had managed to make it out of a city at all.

“What about your master?” she asked.

“I have none.”

Calista’s mouth opened. A masterless auta? She’d never heard of such a thing.

“In any case,” it said, “I prefer to use a more organic model to promote my goods. I sell them as I travel, and their life-changing ability spreads the word all on its own.”

“Life changing?”

“For whatever ails the mind. Anxiety, depression, any mental illness you please.”

Calista wasn’t a mystic, but she also didn’t believe everything in life was pure chaos and chance. There was an ebb and flow to it. Randomness punctuated by meaning. Her own life was on hold, every day a struggle. To flutter her eyelids open, to push herself out of bed, one foot to the floor, the next, a shuffling gait to where? To what? What was the point of it all? What did any of it matter? It was a limbo, a purgatory she was trapped in with no way out, no light at the end of a tunnel; in fact, she couldn’t even feel the walls, lost in darkness, groping for something, anything to latch onto. But there was nothing. No one. Until now. Here was an auta with a promise of solace, a kind of genie offering a gift.

“What about grief?” she asked.

The auta placed a finger to its chin and tapped.

“An interesting proposition. I have not yet tried to apply the wireworks to that emotion, but it would be worth attempting. However, I would need to make adjustments.”

“How much would it cost me?”

“Only your help. Come back tomorrow, and we will work on refining it.”

Calista put her hand out, tilted it, and let the chip tumble into the auta’s palm.

“What do you call yourself?” she asked.

“Alta, and you?”

“Calista.”

“I will see you tomorrow, Calista.”

Calista was in a daze from the moment she left Alta’s tent to when she lay her head down on her pillow that night. Her mind churned through endless thoughts, variations on the risks, the rewards, pros, cons. Should she return? Help a masterless auta on an experimental technology all to escape her grief? Yes. Of course she would. She had no choice. She would do anything to be free of its ironclad grip. Anything to move on.

“Good morning, and welcome back, Calista,” Alta said as she entered its tent the next morning. “Are you ready to begin?”

“Yes.”

“Very well.” Alta pointed to the chair she’d used the day before. “Please sit.”

Calista followed the auta’s instructions and waited while it moved various supplies to a cart, then wheeled it over. Alta grabbed a wooden chair, set it in front of hers, and sat.

“I will need to ask you a series of questions to get to the heart of the unpleasant effects grief has on humans.”

Calista frowned and suddenly felt cold.

“Is that what you need my help with?” she asked.

“I read a great deal on the subject after you left, but I have lingering questions.”

“I . . . I guess I can try to answer them.”

“Good. Then, let us begin. You currently suffer from grief, correct?”

Calista steeled herself. This was going to be a difficult conversation, but if it held the promise of relief, she was willing to weather the anguish.

“Yes,” she said.

“How does it feel?”

“Awful.”

“I need more specifics. Physically, what does grief do to you?”

Calista breathed in and out slowly and squeezed her fingers.

“It comes in waves. Like an overwhelming dread falls on me and grips me so tight I can’t breathe.”

“What else?”

“There’s the nausea. Of not being able to keep anything down. Of feeling too filled with a nervous energy one minute and then completely drained the next.”

“And emotionally, are you able to put that into words?”

Calista felt the wave about to hit. She tried to brace herself against it, but the surge only grew in strength. The potency of that awful crash coincided with a torrent of tears.

“Hmm,” Alta said. “Let us skip that question for now and move on. I suspect it may be too difficult to explain while you are in the midst of the pain.”

“Okay,” Calista said, sniffling and wiping the moisture from her cheeks.

“To understand the depth of your grief, I need to know what happened.”

Calista balked, then shook her head violently.

“It is necessary,” Alta said. “Please, tell me what you are grieving over.”

She wanted to flee, feet flying through the dirt and grass and stone back to the safety of her home, but when she thought of that cold chateâu devoid of light, of life, of her mother, despair seized her. There was no relief there, no one that understood the ache, no one who would comfort her. She was alone with this pain, and it seemed that only Alta and its wireworks offered an escape.